New vert.x getting started and reference guide (#18453)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/vertx-reference.adoc

import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;
import javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType;

import io.smallrye.mutiny.Uni;
import org.jboss.resteasy.annotations.jaxrs.PathParam;

import io.vertx.mutiny.core.Vertx;
import io.vertx.mutiny.ext.web.client.WebClient;
import io.vertx.core.json.JsonObject;
import io.vertx.ext.web.client.WebClientOptions;

@Path("/fruit-data")
public class ResourceUsingWebClient {

    private final WebClient client;

    @Inject
    VertxResource(Vertx vertx) {
        this.client = WebClient.create(vertx);
    }

    @GET
    @Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
    @Path("/{name}")
    public Uni<JsonObject> getFruitData(@PathParam("name") String name) {
        return client.get("/api/fruit/" + name)
                .send()
                .onItem().transform(resp -> {
                    if (resp.statusCode() == 200) {
                        return resp.bodyAsJsonObject();
                    } else {
                        return new JsonObject()
                                .put("code", resp.statusCode())
                                .put("message", resp.bodyAsString());
                    }
                });
    }

}

----

> This resource creates a `WebClient` and, upon request, uses this client to invoke the _fruityvice_ API.

Author: ok, I may have cut the text mentioning it :-D I've rephrased to remove it.

    }
}
----

http://localhost:8080/hello/Quarkus/object returns:

[source, text]
----
{"Hello":"Quarkus"}
----

http://localhost:8080/hello/Quarkus/array returns:

[source, text]
----
["Hello","Quarkus"]
----

This works equally well when the JSON content is a request body or is wrapped in a `Uni`, `Multi`, `CompletionStage` or `Publisher`.

== Deploying verticles

link:https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-core/java/#_verticles[Verticles] is "a simple, scalable, actor-like deployment and concurrency model" provided by _Vert.x_.
This model does not claim to be a strict actor-model implementation, but it shares similarities, especially concerning concurrency, scaling, and deployment.
To use this model, you write and _deploy_ verticles, communicating with each other by sending messages on the event bus.

You can deploy _verticles_ in Quarkus.
It supports:

* _bare_ verticle - Java classes extending `io.vertx.core.AbstractVerticle`
* _Mutiny_ verticle - Java classes extending `io.smallrye.mutiny.vertx.core.AbstractVerticle`

To deploy verticles, use the regular Vert.x API:

[source, java]
----
@Inject Vertx vertx;

// ...
vertx.deployVerticle(MyVerticle.class.getName(), ar -> { });

> vertx.deployVerticle(new MyVerticle(), ar -> { });

Author: Done.

More detailled explanations about the configuration can be found on https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-web/java/#_sockjs_event_bus_bridge[the Vert.x SockJS Bridge documentation].

The browser must use the `vertx-eventbus` JavaScript library to consume the message:

[source, html]
----
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <title>SockJS example - Quarkus</title>
    <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.3.1.min.js"
            integrity="sha256-FgpCb/KJQlLNfOu91ta32o/NMZxltwRo8QtmkMRdAu8=" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
    <script type="application/javascript" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/sockjs/0.3.4/sockjs.min.js"></script>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vertx3-eventbus-client@3.8.5/vertx-eventbus.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>

<h1>SockJS Examples</h1>

<p><strong>Last Tick:</strong> <span id="tick"></span></p>

</body>
<script>
    var eb = new EventBus('/eventbus');

    eb.onopen = function () {

        eb.registerHandler('ticks', function (error, message) {
            $("#tick").html(message.body);
        });
    }

</script>
</html>
----

[#native-transport]
== Native Transport

> IMPORTANT: Native transports are not supported in native executables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Native transports are not supported in GraalVM produced binaries.
```

The idea is to avoid using 'native' that means two different things here
